Q1 Have you ever created the kubernetes cluster by yourself, tell me the steps?
Q2 Explain kubernetes architecture and various components of a kubernetes control plane.
Q3 How are endusers authenticated and authorised in kubernetes cluster, Different ways with which users can be authenticated ?
Q4 How to run a three tier application in kubernetes , what all kubernetes objects will you create for the app.
Q5 What are service accounts and when should we use it
Q6 What is a pod
Q7 What are readiness and liveness probes?
Q8 What are different pod status:- pending, Running , succeeded failed ,unknown
Q9 A pod is in pending state , what all can be possible reasons.:- no nodes available to schedule the pod
Q10 How can we restrict a pod to not connect to another pod?
Q11 How can you copy files to a running pod:- kubectl cp /tmp/foo <somenamespace>/<some-pod>:/tmp/bar
Q12 What are crds
Q13 What are init containers
Q14 What are adapter containers
Q15 What is the purpose of static pod
Q16 Why to define resource quota for each namespace
Q17 What are daemonsets , in which scenario would you use it
Q18 What are types of volumes you have used in kubernetes
Q19 How to make a container accept request from a specific ip or a container. :- use network policies
Q20 What is pod disruption budget , when to use it
Q21 What are canary deployment , Bluegreen deployment and rolling update in kubernetes
Q22 Lets say If I want to roll out a new version of an application service and wanted it to be available just for test engineers and old version should be available for all other users , How will you go about it :- use canary deployment with istio For specific user pass some specific header and based on that route the traffic from isito to new version.
Q23 How to get kubernetes deployment status in ci cd jenkins pipeline (to know if the deployment was successful) use this kubectl rollout status deployment deployment_name --watch --timeout=5m
Q24 How to make a service stop sending request to a pod out of 5 replicas to test the new pod configuration :- service sends traffic to pods based on selector label so change the label of a particular pod so that service will stop sending traffic to that particular pod
Q25 We have a three tier web application, when user tries to access ui service from browser he is not getting any response , what could be the issue? : Service might not be able to reach pod
Q26 What is the difference between deployment , replica set and statefulsets : replica sets are basically use to maintain the replicas of pods, whereas deployments are basically used to maintain the application version
Q27 What is startup probe?
Q28 How is the networking handled in kubernetes, How does the pods gets ip in cluster :- pods gets ip in kubernetes cluster using cni , Kubelet will create the pod and will run the cni, cni in turn will allocate ip to pod
Q29 What is a headless service, where will you use it?
Q30 What is ingress
Q31 What is the difference between HPA & VPA, When to use which.
Q32 How do you upgrade a kubernetes cluster
Q33 How do you monitor kubernetes cluster
Q34 What is RBAC
Q35 Difference between helm and operator , which one to use when:- these are not alternative of each other , they complement each other
Q36 What are the major differences between helm 2 and helm3
Q37 How to leave any manifest file in helm upgrade however in helm install that file should be used
Q38 What is helper.tpl file in helm
Q39 What is the templating engine used in helm charts:- jinja 2 templating engine